---
title: "Heterogeneous Network Based Contrastive Learning Method for PolSAR Land Cover Classification"
collection: publications
# state: under review
permalink: /publication/2023-05-01-HCLNet
excerpt: 'This paper proposes a Heterogeneous Network based on Contrastive Learning (HCLNet). 
HCLNet aims to learn high-level representation from unlabeled PolSAR data for few-shot classification according to multi-features.'
date: 2023-05-01
venue: 'IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10601228'
citation: 'Cai, Jianfeng, et al. "Heterogeneous Network Based Contrastive Learning Method for PolSAR Land Cover Classification." IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing (2024).'
---
<p style="text-align:justify; text-justify:inter-ideograph;">This paper proposes a Heterogeneous Network based on Contrastive Learning (HCLNet). 
HCLNet aims to learn high-level representation from unlabeled PolSAR data for few-shot classification according to multi-features. 
It introduces the heterogeneous network for the first time to utilize different PolSAR features better. 
Beyond the conventional CL, HCLNet develops two easy-to-use plugins to narrow the domain gap between optics and PolSAR, including beam search and superpixel-based instance discrimination. 
The pre-trained online network is used for the downstream task by fine-tuning. 
Experiments demonstrate the superiority of HCLNet on three widely used PolSAR benchmark data sets compared with state-of-the-art methods on few-shot classification. 
Ablation studies also verify the importance of each component. 
Besides, this work has implications for how to efficiently utilize the multifeatures of PolSAR data to learn better high-level representation in CL and how to construct networks suitable for PolSAR data better. </p>

[Download paper from here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10601228)

<p style="text-align:justify; text-justify:inter-ideograph;">Cai, Jianfeng, et al. "Heterogeneous Network Based Contrastive Learning Method for PolSAR Land Cover Classification." IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing (2024).</p>