---
title: "Disentangling Length Bias In Preference Learning Via Response-Conditioned Modeling"
collection: publications
state: under review
permalink: /publication/2025-02-01-Rc-BT
excerpt: "It introduces a Response-conditioned Bradley-Terry (Rc-BT) model that enhances the model's capability in length bias mitigating and length instruction following, through training on the augmented dataset. Furthermore, it proposes the Rc-RM and Rc-DPO algorithm to leverage the Rc-BT model for reward modeling and direct policy optimization (DPO) of LLMs."
date: 2025-02-01
venue: 'Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing'
paperurl: 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.00814'
citation: 'Cai Jianfeng. (2025). &quot;Disentangling Length Bias In Preference Learning Via Response-Conditioned Modeling.&quot; <i>arXiv preprint arXiv: 2502.00814, 2025</i>.'
---
<p style="text-align:justify; text-justify:inter-ideograph;">Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has achieved considerable success in aligning large language models (LLMs) by modeling human preferences with a learnable reward model and employing a reinforcement learning algorithm to maximize the reward model's scores. However, these reward models are susceptible to exploitation through various superficial confounding factors, with length bias emerging as a particularly significant concern. Moreover, while the pronounced impact of length bias on preference modeling suggests that LLMs possess an inherent sensitivity to length perception, our preliminary investigations reveal that fine-tuned LLMs consistently struggle to adhere to explicit length instructions. To address these two limitations, we propose a novel framework wherein the reward model explicitly differentiates between human semantic preferences and response length requirements. Specifically, we introduce a Response-conditioned Bradley-Terry (Rc-BT) model that enhances the model's capability in length bias mitigating and length instruction following, through training on our augmented dataset. Furthermore, we propose the Rc-RM and Rc-DPO algorithm to leverage the Rc-BT model for reward modeling and direct policy optimization (DPO) of LLMs, simultaneously mitigating length bias and promoting adherence to length instructions. Extensive experiments across various foundational models and datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and generalizability of our approach.</p>

[Download paper from here](http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.00814)

<p style="text-align:justify; text-justify:inter-ideograph;">Cai Jianfeng. (2025). &quot;Disentangling Length Bias In Preference Learning Via Response-Conditioned Modeling.&quot; <i>arXiv preprint arXiv: 2502.00814, 2025</i>.</p>